Git is a distributed version control system used for tracking changes in source code during software development. It is designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency.

Here are some key points about Git:

Distributed Version Control: Unlike centralized version control systems, Git is distributed, meaning every developer has a copy of the entire project's history. This makes it robust and reliable.

Commits: In Git, changes to the source code are tracked through commits. Each commit records changes made to files, along with a message describing the changes.

Branching: Git allows developers to create branches to work on new features or bug fixes independently. Branches can be merged back into the main codebase when the work is completed.

Merging: Git can automatically merge changes from different branches, ensuring that changes made by multiple developers can be integrated seamlessly.

Remote Repositories: Git facilitates collaboration by allowing developers to work on a local copy of the repository and push changes to remote repositories (like GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket) for sharing with others.

Pull Requests: On platforms like GitHub, developers can propose changes to a repository by creating a pull request. This allows others to review the changes before they are merged into the main codebase.

Version History: Git maintains a detailed history of all changes made to the code, making it possible to track who made specific changes and why.

Staging Area: Git has a staging area where changes can be reviewed and prepared before they are committed. This allows developers to selectively include changes in commits.

Git Workflow: There are various Git workflows, such as Git Flow and GitHub Flow, which define best practices for using Git in a collaborative development environment.

Open Source: Git is open source software, and it's widely used in the programming community.

   SOME OF THE GIT COMMANDS MENTIONED BELOW


global user.name "XYZ " : To create user name in Git

global user.email "xyz.@gmail.com" : Git will assigns user mail

global --list : Git will shows all the user details

Staging area is a folder in which it will track the selected files 

git init : Git will create local repository

git status : Git will shows the file status

git add xyz.txt : Git will add xyz file to staging area

git log : Git shows all old commits

git comit : Git will update the changes done in the file

git diff : Git will shows the changes happen in the file

git add : It will add all the files in repository

git rm-- cached.xyz : Git will delete the xyz file

git branch-m main : Git will create main branch  